So after the trotter and the hawk
have been removed, now we have our square
cut shoulder that gets split
into two different sections,
we've got our Boston butt
and our picnic sections here.
I like to actually bone out
the picnic section
with these
what's called country ribs intact.
So I'm going to go ahead
and just use my saw to cut through there.
So I'll come in with the saw
and I'm just using
the base of the neck bone in here
as my guiding.
OK, my guidelines,
so I'm just going to come through
and cut through those first four ribs
that we were looking for
that were used as markers
to separate the shoulder from the loin.
So once I'm through the ribs on set,
I'll take my steak knife.
It comes and I'm just cutting
down into the bone and what we're hitting
there is the scapula.
So once we identify where the scapula is
with the knife, we'll come back in
and just finish off the cut
with the hand saw.
And once I'm through,
I'll come back in again
and cut the skin away.
And now I've got my
Picnic section.
And my Boston bad section.